    BSIP: 0039
    Title: Automatically approve proposals by the proposer
    Authors: Fabian Schuh <https://github.com/xeroc>
             Abit More <https://github.com/abitmore>
    Status: Draft
    Type: Protocol
    Created: 2018-03-20
    Discussion: https://github.com/bitshares/bitshares-core/issues/138
                https://github.com/bitshares/bsips/issues/71
    Worker: <Id of worker proposal>

# Abstract

On the BitShares Blockchain, proposals allow to gather signatures for a
multisignature-setup by means of on-chain approvals. In contrast to
other blockchains, these proposals are actually stored on the blockchain
and automatically executed once the required amount of approvals has
been reached. This allows participants of a multisignature-setup to
exchange insufficiently signed transactions easily.

However, when creating a new proposal, the proposer needs to manually
approve his operation afterwards. This is not only inconvenient, but
also costs and additional operation and thus a fee.

This BSIP proposes a protocol change that enables the proposer of a
proposal to automatically added herself as approved.

# Motivation

In the case of a simple 2-of-3 multisig-scheme, today's implementation
forces us to have 3 operations stored on the blockchain: a) the proposal
itself, and two approvals.

The inconvenience and additional fee hinders adoption of this scheme and
makes it unnecessary complicated.

# Rational

Giving the proposer an option to automatically approve the proposal
after creation solves the issue.

If the proposer is not part of the multisig-setup, having him approve
the proposal automatically does not affect the validity of the proposal
itself.

It's not a security related change, changing the default behavior is not
the best option. It's good to maintain backward compatibility, avoid
breaking existing applications.

# Specifications

Add an extension to the `proposal_create_operation` that let the proposer
define whether to auto-approve the proposal after creation. If the
extension is not present, do not auto-approve. The extension can only be
used after a scheduled protocol upgrade time.

# Discussion

By proposing an action, sometimes the proposer can be considered as an
agreeing party, otherwise the proposal wouldn't have been created in
the first place. Since sometimes the proposer doesn't want to approve
immediately, it's better that she has an option to decide whether to
auto-approve.

# Non-technical Summary

This BSIP proposes a minor modification that improves the process of
using hierarchical account permissions and simplifies the use of
multisig-setups with only minimal modifications.

# Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain.

# See Also

* https://github.com/bitshares/bitshares-core/issues/138
* https://github.com/bitshares/bsips/issues/71
